well we can now speak to Muhammad salha
who's the acting director for the AL AA
Hospital in Northern Gaza he's joining
us by phone from there uh Mr Salah thank
you so much for speaking to us on Al
jaer what can you tell us about the
current situation inside Al AA how many
doctors and patients are still present
in the
facility yes uh we are now the fifth day
of sieg of ala
Hospital uh yesterday Wednesday the
Israeli occupation forces is um forced
evacuation the our staff and the patient
companies with with the to evacuate the
W the Western
Gaza to the Western
Gaza City and now we are 14 of of
medical stuff we are stay with with our
patient here in the H and we are not
evacuated because I am refused to
evacuate the hospital from from patient
even they have to send to us an
ambulances because the situation of our
patient is the hard situation they can't
walk to go to West gazda and uh we stay
with now we have 11 of patient and
another uh uh two uh uh patient company
because there is two girls uh and our
Poli is to stay a caregiver with this
girl so now in total we are 27 person
under the seed in Thea hospital till now
okay so 27 people still inside the
hospital uh including patients and saaf
as you were talking to us Mr Salah we
could hear some loud noise in the
background what sounded like gunshots
can you tell us if there is still
fighting inside or in the vicinity of
the
hospital they are they are shooting a
lot and bombing in surrounding the the
the hospital they are not now shooting
in the hospital before two days they are
shooting in the hospital but now they
are shooting and pumping surrounding the
the hospital there is a sniper on the in
the buildings and they are walking in
the um outdoor area of of our Hospital
there is a lot of of soldiers there so
we are um inside the hospital yesterday
they are entered the entered the
hospital and broken the the doors that
closed or and also any anything Clos is
destroyed it and and they have a they
have
also dogs with them check every single
centimeter in uh in the hospital and uh
they left the hospital um at 9 from
3M till uh uh 900 p.m. and now we are
with our patients we are in the
emergency department in the ground we
evacuate all the patient from the fourth
and the third floor to uh to the
emergency department Department in the
uh in the ground floor because they are
targeting in the second day of uh The
Siege they are targeting the fifth floor
with a pump and U destroyed the water
tanks and there's the dangerous to stay
in
in the third and the fourth floor so we
evacuate our patient down okay so you're
currently on the ground floor level of
the hospital with the patients and staff
that have remained inside can you tell
us about the conditions that you you're
you're facing right now do you have
water for example how are you able to
survive uh at the
moment yeah we have we don't have a a
filtered water before one day of of the
SI till now now 6 days without health
health water we
are now drinking the normal water and if
there is no electricity we will not have
a water because we have a water from the
land directly so we have a shortage also
of fuel because wh is the last the last
time that sending fuel we received from
wh in 22nd of April and now we are 23rd
of May so more than one month we don't
receive uh Fuel and and the fuel that wh
is is sending to us is early for two
weeks to running the hospital but
nowadays we are working on the small
generator to operating the small
generator only to recharge the battery
and uh to lighting the the hospital and
running some of the small devices that
our team has to to use now and we are
running this small generator only for a
few hours because we don't have this
fuel our Central store is um uh far away
of the building that we are under the SE
unit right it's 30 30 m and we can't
bring any of the medication and medical
supplies from Central store and we have
a shortage of medication and medical
supplies very very difficult conditions
you're facing there as this uh uh Siege
continues uh you are not able to leave
this hospital I understand uh and and
some of the doctors are refusing to
leave unless they're provided with
ambulances and a safe Passage can can
you tell us are you aware of who is
coordinating that are you talking to
anyone about the possibility of leaving
the
hospital uh actually we we don't want to
leave our Hospital our patient needed
our services no hospital now in the
northern Gaza STP is is work all of the
hospital is out of service now so this
patient in in a hard situation and they
really serious services from us so we we
don't want to evacuate our hospital we
are providing health services and we are
human so our humanity is will not allow
to us to to leave our patient uh in
front of us but are you not afraid Mr
Salwa for your safety and for the safety
of your patients if you stay
there what J are you not afraid for your
safety and the safety of your patients
if you remain inside the hospital as we
could hear when you were talking to us
there's still a lot of fighting going on
around you near the hospital are are you
not fearful for the safety of of the
people who are under your care and your
safety we we told them to bring a
ambulance but there is no no ambulance
has to come to uh to bring this uh this
patient but really we if we have if we
have also the ambulance where this
patient will go there is no another
hospital to evacuate this patient to
them so we should to provide the health
services in our patients inside our
hospital and to allow to us to bring the
medication and medical supplies and to
running our Hospital right so it's it's
it's not easy to to evacuate this these
patient and also we are uh
all contact we have a contact with wh
and msf our partner and also agenes to
uh to evacuate this this this paent but
we are not succeed and also to
coordinate with the with with the
Israeli occupation forces to to stop
attacking the the hospital we are
non-government organization providing
our services to the uh to the patient in
the northern Gaza and we have now a huge
crisis with the women they are not
having now maternity Services we are the
only Hospital also providing maternity
services in the northa and this woman
will not have this these Services now
the women will get better in the in the
shelters and will get in the street at
home no they didn't have this kind of
services in the north Gaza STP nowadays
so a lot of problem the people in the
north Gaza will face if they really the
LA the hospital is uh out of service
yeah alaa hospital is located in the
jabalia refugee camp for our viewers who
who don't know and this is a refugee
camp which has been repeatedly targeted
by Israeli forces since October the 7th
and you've described some some very
difficult conditions Mr salha that
you've been working under uh in uh AA
since uh the War Began can can you uh
perhaps uh you know just give us a final
message what would you like to say today
to the people who are listening to you
and to the International
Community the the message is that we uh
working with to serve the lives of the
life of people we ask everybody to uh to
stand with the hospital our hospital to
not Target it from the Israeli
occupation forces and
we call on the International Community
to uh pressure on the Israeli not to
targeted our our hospital and let us to
work and to providing the health
services for the people in
need thank you so much Mr salha Muhammad
salha for speaking to us we wish for
your continued safety and the safety of
your patients of course Muhammad Salah
is the acting director of the AL
Hospital in Northern Gaza which is under
siege by Israeli forces thank you very
much for talking to
us make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from aler